# DEAR APPLE, WE NEED A SIRI INFORMATION INTENT

https://medium.com/@magesteve/dear-apple-we-need-a-siri-information-intent-9082e8146cb9

## Dear Apple,
## Please give me a Siri “Information” Intent so that I can write voice apps like Alexa and Google Assistant.
### Thank you, A Concerned Developer

Apple’s Siri support gets a bad rap among developers. This is a bit unfair because the SDK is incredibly well designed for its purpose, which is to implement one of the Apple-defined Siri Intents. Think of an Intent as an area of interest that Apple has decided Siri should support. They are broad categories of commands, like ones dealing with banking, or interacting with your car, or setting an event on your calendar. Apple opened up Siri to 3rd Party developers when they published the SiriKit. The developer now adds code to existing apps that Siri can use to parse voice commands dealing with these Intents.
There are advantages to this approach. No matter who implements an Intent, the voice commands to do something are the same. It doesn’t matter what Bank or Credit Card app you have, the same commands can be used to pay off a bill, or transfer money. The same phrases are used to send a text message, regardless of what Social Media chat app you use. Likewise, the audio response that Siri gives back (success or failure of the command) is the same regardless of who implemented an Intent.
The 3rd Party developer does not have to parse the text of a Siri input. Siri looks at what the user has said, picks out the essential bits of data, and only passes that significant data on to the 3rd Party code to handle. If the user’s input is not enough (i.e. he forgot to say what account to transfer the money out of since he has two), Siri prompts him for more details.
One of the most significant technical advantages Siri has over Alexa or Google is the ability to parse the user’s input in many different valid ways. It is really impressive.
The problem is two-fold. First, Apple does not provide the ability for 3rd Party Developers to define a new Intent. I can see some technical/management issues with allowing developers to do this, but still, this lack of ability is very limiting. And secondly, Apple did not provide a generic Information Intent.
There are thousands of Alexa and Google Assistant apps out there. Lots of them involve commands very similar to Apple’s Intents, but a majority of them are merely audio interaction. The user asks something and hears a response. No commands are implemented, no hardware is activated, no software setting changes. The user asked for weather somewhere, and he hears the result. He or she wants to know who said a quote and finds the answer. He makes a move in a simple audio game, and he hears the response.
So much of the useful and fun interaction with a hands free computer interface is nothing more than an audio conversation. Include a little memory of what the user has recently said (game state), and you can do almost anything.
So what could the format of the “Information Intent” look like? Let’s start with simple “Ask XXX” command, where XXX would be the name of the 3rd Party app to look up the following information. Like other Intents, the command word “Ask” could be changed to anything, but “Ask” would be the default setting. Similar to Alexa Skill, the app name would help determine which app you want to parse the request (say National Weather Service vs. local Weather Station). Next, there could be optional phrases like “Who is XXX?” or “What is XX?”. Think of the traditional Who, What, Where, How & Why questions. Then the remaining text would be the request sent to the 3rd Party app to parse.
This is just a general idea of where an Information Intent could start. I am sure the Audio experts at Apple could come up with a better designed one, but they need to open up the hood to new coding patterns.
Any SDKs have three areas that they have to provide for developers to uses. One, the API has to be well defined to layout the functionality in a logical manner. Poorly designed ones are impossible to work with. Second, the most common tasks need to have pre-defined calls that manage the patterns developers are most likely to use. Requiring identical sequence of calls in every code example makes it easier to make mistakes. Always make programming the common cases easier. And lastly, the SDK must be open-ended enough for a Developer to use it to implement ideas that Apple never conceived of. Apple engineers are excellent, but they are not as smart as the entire outside developer community combined. Some of the best ideas for products are ones that the original designer of a feature never thought of when first creating it. Making your SDK so narrow in focus that developers cannot do anything unusual is a way to hamstring creativity. And everyone’s success.
Just look at the success of Alexa and Google compared to Siri.
So please Apple, give me an Intent I can work with.
A Concerned Developer.
Ps. I requested this Intent 2 years ago at WWDC 2016. Is it time yet? WWDC 2018 would be a perfect opportunity to announce this!
Steve Sheets, June 3, 2018
Email: magesteve@mac.com
